# Partner Power Hour 07 - Threat Actor Techniques

Sean, it's really good to see all of the participants. I will be keeping an eye on the question-answer session, so make sure you put in questions as we go along, and I'm happy to address those and have a real interactive discussion. Let me share my screen so we can get some visuals which will help with some of this. That should be working. Does that look good, John? "Yeah, we got it." Okay, good. Just making sure before I went on, with somebody in the background frantically saying we can't see your screen, those phrases that we hear so much in 2020: "You're muted," "You're not muted," or "Can't see your screen."

What I wanted to do was give you all an overview of some things that I hope will be useful in the world of cybersecurity. This time, I'd like to focus on how threat actors use psychology and go after human behavior in trying to advance their evil aims. I think this would be perfect for this Friday the 13th presentation. I'd also like to introduce my company and myself just a little bit so you know where I'm coming from and who I am. The company I work for is called Binary Defense. It's based in Stow, Ohio, but we have people working all over the place. I am in Seattle, Washington. The purpose of Binary Defense is to defend companies, client companies from cyber threats. We do that in a lot of different ways, from monitoring security events and responding to those, to doing proactive threat hunting on clients' networks, to also external counterintelligence investigations where we're looking at what threat actors put on criminal forums and interacting with some of those threat actors to elicit some more information that could help people out.

My name is Randy Parkman. I've been working at Binary Defense for over a year now. Before that, I worked for the FBI for 15 years. I put this picture on here, the obligatory suit picture. When I worked at the FBI, I had to keep that suit available at all times because you never know when you might need to go, suddenly go, talk to a company that had been the victim of a cyberattack, had to have that FBI look. I don't think I've worn the suit more than three times in the last year, and that is an often overlooked benefit of working in cybersecurity. You can be really casual. Now, since everybody's working at home, I feel like everybody's gotten that benefit, and that's great. But anyway, I just had to comment on that. It's fun getting to work in cybersecurity because it is an adventure all the time. We're constantly learning from each other. There's a great community sharing information with each other, and all of that really goes to making companies safer.

At Binary Defense, I lead a couple of teams. One is the threat hunting team, which I mentioned looks for advanced adversaries on internal networks. Then the counterintelligence and intel ops teams are looking externally at what threat actors are doing. So, I want to start this off with some questions for you, and feel free to just pose it as a question in the Q&A, and I'll get your responses, and I'll read those out. So, if you were a cybercriminal and you wanted to break in, let's just give you, for instance, let's say you wanted to go after a big gaming company or a hospital or someplace that you knew that their operations were very critical to them and that if you were able to disrupt those operations, you might be able to extract an extortion payment or get them to pay a ransom. How would you break in? What would be your approach? And I'm seeing no questions coming in in the Q&A, so hopefully, this will be a little bit more lively discussion. There we go. All right. "Get to know somebody that works there." That's fantastic. That is a great idea. So if you get to know somebody, maybe you can kind of profile them on LinkedIn, reach out to them, get to know, you know, what a little bit more information about what might get you into that company.

Oh, somebody else, there we go, "Apply for a job." That's an excellent one. In fact, I've seen that one quite often where the targeted employees at the company were HR or recruiters, and the criminals actually put together a whole resume, they put together a LinkedIn profile like everything, they look like they were applying for a job, and if that HR person opened up the resume, it was a Word document, it would actually compromise their computer. "Send phishing emails." Yeah, hit the nail right on the head. That is the number one way that people break in. So let me talk about some of these ways that we're going to address here because there's a couple of different approaches. One that you all didn't mention, I'm surprised, is hacking software. Like, let's not even rely on people, other than maybe the IT personnel, to make the mistake of not patching their servers, and let's just exploit a vulnerability that exists in some software that faces the internet. We can just walk straight in the front door if we do that.

Now, the problem with that is those software vulnerabilities are very difficult to find. It takes somebody with a lot of technical skill to analyze software and find those flaws, and then it's short-lived because if the company that makes the software finds the flaw and they issue a patch, it's just a matter of time before everybody patches. But we're going to talk about a real-life story that will hopefully make this a little more clear. How about remote login? How many people are working remotely these days? A lot more than they used to, right? I mean, still not everybody can work remotely. There's a lot of very critical jobs that can only be done in person. But still, there are so many employees that can work remotely and are working remotely now, and all of those people have some kind of way to access the company's resources, right?

So, those remote logins present an opportunity for attackers. Attackers can steal somebody's password, or they can maybe hijack their session that's in progress. Like maybe you log in from your home computer, your home computer has some malware, the attacker can actually ride that connection right back to your company if they got access to that. The third way is tricking an employee. So, that's another thing that we're going to be talking about, using social engineering, which is a lot of what your suggestions were. Another word for that would be like con artists, confidence tricks, convincing somebody on the inside to give you, the criminal, access without them knowing it. That's the key. They have to not know it, otherwise, they're going to kick you out pretty quickly. I'll tell you some real-life stories from that as well.

So, what I want to do for the rest of this time is tell you about things that really happen that I've seen firsthand. I am going to very deliberately not talk about when this was or who the victim was. That's not appropriate, and it's not really even relevant. And I'm not going to reveal anything that has to do with any kind of private information or something like that, but it doesn't matter. Those details are actually not all that interesting. The interesting thing is, what did the attackers do? How did

 they get in, and did it work? Oh, another suggestion, "Keylogger malware." Yeah, absolutely. We see, by we, I mean Binary Defense and the security industry as a whole, we see stolen passwords from keyloggers so often. More often than not, it's passwords that are stored in web browsers or in spreadsheets or text files on your desktop, but just because those are, you know, 100% pure passwords. But people also do keylogging, which means just capturing every keystroke you type on your keyboard. Now, I have had to review a lot of keylog capture files. They're full of junk, too. It's like a little bit of your email plus all of your spelling mistakes. It's kind of funny to see people typing, you know, and then backspace, backspace, or sometimes a thought that you didn't mean to send, your Word documents, all of that, plus every once in a while, it's a password. So, that's why cybercriminals don't focus on the keyloggers as much because it's a pain to go through the output and actually pull the passwords out of that.

Let's go through these one at a time. Hacking software. This last summer, in fact, I remember very distinctly it was July 4th. The big F5 company, which makes a whole lot of very popular networking devices, it started, actually, I think, on June 30th, if I remember this correctly. So, June 30th, F5 published an advisory to all of their customers that said, "Hey, we've discovered there is a critical vulnerability in the F5 BIG-IP product," which can be used load balancers, lots of different ways, but the point is this is something directly connected to the internet that has a public IP address and it's associated with companies, including really big companies, and pretty much all of the giant companies in the world are using F5 gear, which is great for F5. They said, "Look, we've issued a patch. In fact, they issued like an emergency workaround mitigation thing that you could kind of put the script into place before you put the patch in, and then please apply this patch." And they communicated, I think, very clearly, "This is critical. If you don't apply this patch, your hardware is going to be taken over."

So, that was June 30th or whatever, end of June. I remember because on July 4th, when everybody in the U.S., including myself, was trying to enjoy preparations for the really strange 24th of July, and I was getting some meat together to smoke in the backyard and, you know, enjoying some beverages and kind of weird not to have friends over, but you know, we were having a good time, all of a sudden, the U.S. Cyber Command, which is the part of the DOD associated with the NSA, that has a couple of missions. One is to do foreign intelligence gathering over the network, but it's also to protect U.S. interests on critical infrastructure at least. They issued a warning through Twitter, and if you don't follow U.S. Cyber Command on Twitter, you really should because they put out some really interesting stuff, and it said, "This F5 BIG-IP vulnerability is critical. It's being exploited in the wild. You should not wait over the Fourth of July weekend to patch." Now, if you are an IT admin, that's the last thing you want to hear because it means you might have to go back to the office. You know, this is a piece of networking gear. You might not be able to even remote in. It's a big deal, and with any patch comes the problem of, you know, what if the patch fails? What if it, like, knocks us offline for the whole company for a while? Like, that'd be really bad. You know, is there a way to back this patch out? All kinds of issues around patching. Anyway, what happened was tons of companies didn't. It's Fourth of July. People were off, weren't paying attention. They just didn't. This was a big, big deal.

So, I want to do a little sidebar here and say I am a part of a group of volunteers around the world called the COVID-19 Cyber Threat Intelligence League, or CTI League for short. It's actually started by a guy out of Seattle who works for Microsoft and another guy out of Israel, and there are volunteers all over the world. And what we do, the whole point of this group, is to put our collective brains together and do everything that we can to protect hospitals and the medical infrastructure during this time of the pandemic because they've got enough to deal with. We don't need them dealing with cyber incidents as well. If you've seen the news anytime recently, there's been tons of attacks against hospitals, like, that affected patient care. So, one of the things that the CTI League spun up right away was some automated ability to scan and find these vulnerable F5 devices, identify which ones belong to hospitals or anything really critical, and then just make the effort to go notify those people, like use all of our collective contacts, reach out to people, and say, "Look, you might not have seen this, but this is super critical. You need to do this right now, like right now, right now. Don't put aside whatever you're doing for Fourth of July and go do this." So, when I was hoping to be spending the time smoking meat, I ended up spending hours in my office, frantically, you know, calling lots of people at big companies. And I'm not going to mention the companies, but there were a lot of really big ones. I got a lot of mixed responses, so IT admins saying, "This is the suckiest thing you could have told me right now," and also, "Thank you very much. We don't want to become a victim." And so, I was able to see, actually, in real-time that they were patching those systems because they stopped being vulnerable. I also want to mention the way that we were checking it was not to exploit the vulnerability. That's an ethical gray line you shouldn't cross. But anyway, we could see that these things were being patched. Unfortunately, there were some other things that didn't. There were some, like, critical power utilities, some water treatment places that were vulnerable. Threat actors took advantage of this big time. They were able to steal all of the passwords for all of the users and run pretty much anything they wanted, and this was then and continues to be. There are still some F5 devices not patched still, all these months later, and threat actors just continue to own those things.

So, this type of vulnerability can result in complete takeover of your network domain, dominance, ransomware across everything, like, about the worst-case scenario that you can think of, with no user interaction at all. They don't have to trick anybody into opening anything. The only thing they have to do is just take advantage of this vulnerability. That's why patching is so important. Patching is a big part of security. It seems boring. It seems like, you know, just applying patches that come out, but, and if you've ever done patch management, it's also horrible because there

 are so many patches all the time. You're overwhelmed, but you need to have some kind of policy in place that prioritizes these, and you need to understand which are actually critical, like this one, and which can wait for the next day with like, what is the criteria to come in over the weekend? This was definitely one of those.

All right. So, remote login. This is another way that an attacker can come in, and they do. So, I want to ask you again another question. You can put your responses into the Q&A. How many ways can you think of to get a remote logon password or a way to just log on through some system that exists for employees to use? "Just ask." Yes, absolutely. So, some threat actors actually just call people on the phone. They pretend to be the security department and say, "I need to verify your password so that I know who you are." You know, they flip it around, and suddenly you think like, you're the one that's got to prove yourself, and you give it to them. "Pretend to be the help desk." Absolutely. Just, you know, "I need to test your remote logon. It doesn't look like it's going to work." Brute force. That's another way. Just guess all of the passwords, right? Try a password reset. That could work.

Let me tell you one of the really common ways, actually, I'm gonna tell you this story in a minute, but one of the really common ways that does not have to do with this story that I see all the time is a threat actor breaches or buys access to a breach database of some third party, has nothing to do with your company whatsoever, but it's just like, you know, a website that you can log in to get kids' programming or whatever, any place where you put your email address and whatever password you made up, and then they dump those. And when I see these dumped password databases for sale, it's usually in the tens, hundreds of thousands of individual users. It's got the email address and the plain text password. Well, they count on the fact that people pick the same passwords or really similar passwords across the board, and unfortunately, this is true. And I mean, just think about it. If you don't use a password manager, I guarantee you reuse the same password across lots of things, or you're just an amazing brainiac who can remember hundreds of passwords. I can't. I use a password manager because it's important to not reuse those passwords. So, what they'll do is they'll take these leaked databases of passwords. They'll look for email addresses that end in company domains. Believe it or not, people use their work email to sign up for all kinds of stuff like food ordering, DoorDash, whatever. They just sign up for those things with work email, and then they'll look at those email addresses, and they'll say, "All right, this belongs to, not gonna name a company, just Company X, really big company in the U.S., probably has a lot of money. I'm just gonna try the remote logon with this email address and that password." If that password doesn't work, I'll try adding 2020 to the end of it or an exclamation mark or the number two or something, right? They'll try a few different passwords. And when you've got 10,000 or 100,000 passwords to try, probably gonna strike gold on some of them, and that's what they do. They just play the game of odds, and they usually can get in. But the story I want to share with you, this is an interesting one. Out of these four domain names, let's say that one of these is the domain name of a company that a threat actor wants to breach. Which one of these is the correct one? What do you think? First one, second one, third one, or fourth one? Or you can say A, B, C, or D.

I'm not seeing any guesses. This is an easy one. Just type a number or a letter. What do you think? Or is it that hard to look at them? All right, I'm going to go on with this story. Oh, all right, got one guess, A. So, we'll see at the end if that is correct. So, let me tell you this story. A threat actor was looking at a particular company that they wanted to breach. They had researched this company, targeted them, and they knew that they could get something by registering a domain that looked very much like the legitimate domain but was off by a letter or something, just mixing up a couple of letters. So, they registered a whole bunch of these domains and then they set up email so that any email address, any username at those domain names that they had registered, those are the fake ones that looked like the real one, any address that you sent to would go to them. They'd get that email. So, you didn't have to, it didn't have to be a particular email address, just anything at those domains.

Hopefully, you can see where this is going. This is the evil plan. Just sit and wait. And then they did. They just waited and waited. And eventually, what happened is a new employee got hired at this company, and the person at the front desk who was responsible for setting up all the new accounts had to type that person's new company email address into a system that gave them access to, it wasn't SharePoint, but it was, well, I'm not gonna say, but it was a sensitive repository of all of the company's documents that could be accessed online. And basically, the way it worked is they put in the email address of the person who was supposed to get the new account. It would send them an invitation. They could click on the link, and then they could set up their account. So, the email invitation went to the threat actor, of course, because the person typing it in just made a typo on the domain name, which was kind of long like this. This is one of those downsides of having a really long domain name, people mistype it. So, they got the invitation. They accepted the invitation, of course, and then, oh, there's a chat too. Shoot, I am not looking at the chat. There we go. Oh, I see 41 messages in the chat. All right, I'm going to look at chat and Q&A now. This might help. And I see the majority of people guessed A or 1. You are correct. That's the correct one. All these, all the rest of these have just a slight change to them. So, let me get back to the story. So, the threat actor actually accepted the invitation. They set up their new user account with a password that they picked. They didn't have to trick anybody other than just wait for somebody to mistype that domain name, and the threat actor wasted no time at all. As soon as they had access to this repository, they downloaded everything, every single document that was available. So, this mistake went on for, oh, if I remember right, it was just two days, two and a half days. The new employee finally complained, "Hey, I thought you said I was gonna get an email

. I didn't. Could you get on that?" Front desk person said, "Oh no, I sent it the same day, like right after I talked to you." "Well, I never got it." So, she sent it again. Again, nobody realized there was a problem until the company got extorted because the threat actor was threatening to release all of this information.

All right. I'm gonna scroll through the chat really quick. Oh, I see so many other really good answers. Okay, sorry. I'm gonna pay attention to both of these now. All right. So, if you are wondering, like, what does it take to set up a domain? Nothing at all. It's super easy. In fact, I highly recommend you do it just so that you are aware of how easy this is. Warning, though, it is kind of addictive. Once you start creating domain names, you get to collecting domain names, and you're making the funniest ones that you can think of, and you own all these domains. Anyway, just, you know, don't say I didn't warn you. It's kind of fun to collect domain names. But there is this website called Domains for Bitcoins, and you can go on there. It's not the only place that accepts Bitcoin. Actually, a lot of them do. But with absolutely no identification whatsoever, you can register a domain name, whatever you want. I've done this before myself just to see how it works, and you pay with Bitcoin. It's completely anonymous. Well, we could talk about it on another topic or another presentation sometime, just how anonymous or not Bitcoin is. There are some gotchas there. But anyway, the point is that people can register domains without proving who they are, and people register malicious domains all the time. It's a very common threat actor technique. It's also a really good threat intelligence technique to have some automated systems around searching for domain names and slight variations of ones that you're looking for. This is something my team does all the time, every single day. We're monitoring for domains that look similar to ones that we care about.

Let me talk about idea number three, tricking employees. This is what most of you picked up on when we were talking about ways to get into companies. I see Taylor raised a hand. Oh, loser.com. That's funny. You ever sell any of the domain names that you purchase? No, I just keep them. Like, I accumulate domain names. It's kind of fun. You never know when they're gonna come in handy, actually. So, let's talk about tricking employees. So, if you are the threat actor and you want to convince somebody to open up something or to launch some software, to download something, or to type their password in somewhere, you need to have a plan. First, you need to personalize the message. If you've received these, I'm sure all of you have, if you've got email, you've received something that says, "Hello, I am a prince in Nigeria. I've inherited all this money, but I need to send it out of the country," blah, blah, blah. Like, it's ridiculous. There's no reason on earth why that should be sent to you. By the way, the very fact that you continue to get those means that it works on some people. So, I'm not sure who those people are, but it does work. However, if you are a serious threat actor and you are trying to get into a company and you are good at your craft, you're going to study those people that you are going to send the information to. And guess what? All of us have made that easy. I'm on LinkedIn. You can find so much stuff about me to personalize a message on LinkedIn and pretend to be somebody that I already know. And you know, I'm gonna be skeptical, but a lot of other people wouldn't be. You also need to send from a trusted source. So, like that domain name, not spoofing, but lookalike domain names, that's a frequent tactic. That's why good email providers have a thing that says this was an external email. Beware before you click links or whatever. You can also, if you're an evil threat actor, you can compromise somebody else's email and actually send it from that trusted source. This is done all the time. If you've ever gotten a message from somebody that you actually know, like a contact, and the email contains a trick, that's what happened. That friend of yours, their email got compromised, and the threat actor sent it out to all their contacts.

You also need to create a sense of urgency. So, threat actors almost always go with either the carrot or the stick. What I mean by that is they either offer something really rewarding sounding, like, "If you act on this right now, like in the next 10 minutes, you can claim this glorious prize and win all this money," or this. I've seen quite often, "If you don't respond within the next hour, this is supposedly from HR, you're going to be automatically terminated because, you know, whatever. We're downsizing, and we need to know who responds quickly." Like, it's ridiculous, some of these things, but they work. People click on them. You also need to have a clear call to action. You need the person who receives it to know exactly what to do. And remember, as a threat actor, you're trying to prey on the people who are not thinking things through very well, so you need to make your instructions really clear for those people. So, that they can follow them. I am not saying people are stupid because they click on links. Everybody has fallen for this sometime, and you should not beat yourself up for that. But if you're the threat actor, you generally, like, step one, step two, do these things, and they make it really clear. And then, easy to follow instructions.

What else does this look like other than an evil plan? Doesn't this also look like a good marketing plan? Right? I mean, you're also trying to deliver a message. I'm not drawing a parallel here between marketing and threat actors, but it is kind of interesting to know that the same skills transfer really well. So, we've got a little bit of time to talk about a particular case study, and I want to tell you about this one because this is really fascinating. Now, this is a case that the FBI investigated. I am very deliberately going to stick to just the information that is out in the public, that is available about this case, just in case you're wondering, but that information is pretty rich. It's actually pretty cool. So, this threat actor group went by the name Combi Security, and externally, this was not known. Threat researchers across the globe did not know about Combi Security for years and years and years. FireEye or Mandiant gave it a threat actor designation, FIN7. FIN is short for financially motivated, and seven just means like the seventh major cybercrime group that got big enough to deserve this designation.

So, back in March 2016, this cybercrime group formed, and they did something really interesting. Most cybercrime groups focus on social engineering or tricking their victims or the people at companies that they want to exploit, right? Combi

 Security actually focused first on tricking people into becoming employees to work as part of this cybercrime operation. Think about that for a minute. Like, that is weird, isn't it? That's wild. They actually put job ads out for people to be administrators. They said they needed IT admins to come work for this company, and this was a company that did cybersecurity, and they did socio, what do they call it, like, oh, socio email pen testing. It was something ridiculous. It doesn't actually exist. What it, what they meant by it, though, is like, we pretend to be threat actors. We send phishing emails. We call people on the phone. We try to get them to open up these documents. We hack into their networks, and then we tell that company who's our client how we did it so they can improve their security. This is a real business. Like, real legit cybersecurity companies do this, red teaming. There's a slight difference between red teaming and penetration testing. I'm not going to get into splitting hairs, but that is something that real companies do. So, it's kind of legit. They also had this website that looked pretty cool. They've got a logo, Combi Security. And I want to show you, at the end of this, once all of this information came out, FireEye actually created Combi Security T-shirts. So, of course, I bought one, and I've got one on right now. This is just our laugh at this whole trick, but it was really, really effective. So, they hired a bunch of people. Most of these people were in Eastern Europe. I'm not going to say the specifics, but all that I think is pretty open source, and all of the job ads were in Russian. So, they recruited these people. The people started working for the company. They worked remote, of course, from their homes before that was a major thing. They made pretty good salaries, pretty decent for the places where they lived, and they got trained in how to do computer intrusions.

So, I also want to say that although people got tricked into working for this company to begin with, it didn't take too long before they were able to figure out that they weren't doing legit cybersecurity work. For one, they never actually talked to the clients at all. Like, the clients just sort of showed up out of the blue, and they would hack them. Number two, they would stay in those clients, quote-unquote, for as long as they could. Now, if you've ever done an actual red team engagement or had one done for your company, you know there's a period of time, like, from this date to this date, that this is allowed to take place, and there's rules of engagement, you know, whatever. They didn't have any rules of engagement. They just stayed in the company's network, sometimes six months, sometimes a year. Like, a year, they were in there. And what they were collecting was not useful information about all the different ways they could break in. Instead, they were collecting credit card numbers from point-of-sale machines. That's those machines at, like, restaurants and hotels where they swipe the magnetic stripe of your credit card. Those machines generally are running like Windows XP or Windows 7 under the hood, and they can also run malware. And the malware can steal the credit card numbers right out of memory, save them to text files, harvesting like that. So, there is no way... Okay, I'm not going to answer that one. How many centuries will it be till password entry is eliminated as a standard model for digital security? I have no idea. I wish it were yesterday, though. Passwords are so dead. But I'm going to continue on with this story because I think there are some interesting lessons to be learned. But hopefully, you got the picture. It was really clear to employees of Combi Security after a while that they were working for threat actors, but at that point, they'd already been doing it for a little while. I'm not giving them any excuses here, but they were also making really good money. So, even though they knew now that they were cybercriminals, most of them stayed on and just kept doing it. So, you could say, turned regular people into criminals. All people are regular people, right? I don't draw distinctions between types of people. It's just what you're doing for a living. But at some point, yes, they had to kind of make a moral choice to not think about the people that they were harming. And let me also say, just psychologically, I think it is easier for people to make that moral leap when the people they're harming are a whole world away in a different continent they've never been to, and maybe even in a country that they have some kind of animosity toward, or they've been told is their enemy and hates them. So, there's all kinds of psychology that comes into this.

Anyway, I want to talk about the actual lures that they used. So, this group did some research on the companies that they wanted to target, and they found individual people inside these companies, attorneys, who were responsible for filing information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC. And then they realized that those people would be motivated to respond to these SEC emails very, very quickly because, like, not only is their job at stake, but the whole company's performance and lots of things are at stake. You must respond to the SEC quickly. So, then they sent these emails, and they just spoofed the email address from... They didn't register sec.gov, obviously, and they would not have been able to get a reply to this email, but they sent the email to two attorneys at these companies looking like it was coming from the system called EDGAR, which is an actual SEC filing system. I learned so much more than I wanted to know about how the SEC filing system worked through this whole interaction. They, and they sent it, this was also interesting. You see, they sent it in February 2017. This was just before the SEC would normally send out really urgent things. So, they timed it perfectly. They knew all of this stuff. This was not a random spray and pray Nigerian prince scam. This was highly targeted against people. And then the attached document looked like this. You can see on the screenshot, like, it's got an SEC symbol, and you can see that there's text there that looks really important and governmenty, but it's blurred, right? And then it gives you these instructions, "This document is protected by Microsoft Office and requires human verification." First off, that's a lie. That never happens, but people don't know that. And then it said, "Please enable editing and double-click on page below." Well, what do you think happened if you were to do that, if an attorney were to double-click on that thing? I'm just going to skip because we have... Yeah, not so good. That's right. It would actually install a back door that gave the threat actor on the other side of the world complete unfettered access to that person's computer. Any document on that computer or any connected file shares that that attorney could access, now the threat actor could access, too. Not only that, they could take screenshots of what the attorney

 was looking at. So, whatever was on their screen, they could take screenshots whenever they wanted. And then even more, they could actually turn on like a screen video recording that would record everything going on on that attorney's screen. So, they could actually play back these videos, the threat actors could, and watch like go through the day in the life of this attorney. What were the emails that they sent? You know, what did they focus on? What websites did they go to? They'd basically study and learn everything that that attorney was doing. That's kind of creepy, isn't it, that they wanted that level of information? We're not going to get into the details of why they were going after that, but what's important is that they did. And I got to talk face-to-face with one of the attorneys who clicked on this, and he said, "This is basically the perfect setup. Like, I know I have to respond to these things. It looked like it came from the SEC. I mean, it said filings@sec.gov. That made sense to me, and it came at the right time. Like, when I saw this, I didn't even think twice about opening this document. I mean, it looked a little weird, but like, whatever, it's the SEC. You have to do whatever they say, right?" So, he double-clicked it. He had absolutely no idea. Unfortunately, it had a lot of access, and they got a lot of information that way.

And I mean, that was just one attorney out of many. This was targeted across lots of companies. So, let me show you another one of the phishing lures that they used. This is a document that looks like it's from the Food and Drug Administration, the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. I actually think that's probably a real thing, but I'm not even sure. But the point is that this looks very legitimate. And the funny thing is, look at the very first word in the text. It says, "Hello." This gives you a clue maybe it was written by a non-native English speaker, although I mean, even native English speakers with lots of writing experience make typos, right? It says, "We've detected recently detected a number of safety shortcomings in your fast food restaurants, including your own. You're particularly found to fall short several keys," blah, blah, blah, "food and born ill businesses." Anyway, this is that sense of urgency, right? Like, you're thinking, "Oh my gosh, my restaurant is going to shut down." We don't have enough time to have a Q&A question about why you think they targeted restaurants, so I'll just tell you. The highest number of credit card swipes per minute happen in restaurants. Fast food restaurants, in particular. People swipe those credit cards all day long, much faster than they do at hotels. Lots more throughput. So, they, this group, was trying to get as many credit card details as they could from all the cash registers at all these restaurants, and they were wildly successful at it as well. Yes, that is evil. I mean, don't mess with my fast food because I just want to eat and be happy in the carbs and the calories that I'm consuming. I don't have to think about credit card theft at the same time. But this was wildly effective at getting people to open things up. Plus, what's interesting is restaurant networks, if you didn't know, most restaurant networks have the computers that browse the internet and check email for all employees on the same flat network as the computers that process the credit cards. And those computers that process the credit cards are like ancient Windows computers that never get patched. So, I mean, that's just, I'm not blaming any particular restaurant. That's just the way it is. It's about business and very low margins. So, just be aware. And if you were going to ask the question, is it safer to dip the chip of your credit card then swipe the stripe? Yes, definitely. If you've got, if you go to a restaurant and you can run a chip card, that is way, way safer.

All right. So, let me tell you or show you the final generic sort of lure that they used that was effective. This was effective against a whole bunch of hotel operators. They compromised tons of hotels with this. It just was sort of general. It didn't have any particular lure. All of the lure went into the email itself, and for these to be effective, what the FIN7 actors did was they actually researched the people at the hotels who were responsible for big group bookings. They knew that those people would get like a bonus on their salary if they booked really large groups, and so they sent them an email that said, "I want to book like 100 people from my company, but you need to respond now because I need to book this today." They'd get an immediate response. Then they'd call them on the phone, and this seemed really legitimate to people, and they'd walk them through it on the phone. They'd say, "All right, I just sent you the email that has everybody's like names and date of birth and all that information you need, but my company has a strict privacy policy. We've used our document protection system to protect this document." So, this time, they've already got like back and forth email. They're on the phone with them. They'd walk them through it, step by step. "Okay, open that document. You see the envelope? Double-click that. Okay, do you see where it says 'Security Warning'? That means you're gonna go into secure mode. So, click on 'Open,' and it'll be secure." Like, when somebody's walking you through this on the phone, it really seems legit. And tons of people fell for this. So, when they clicked "Open," of course, that would give the threat actors complete access to that computer.

The critical security piece in almost all of these hacks was the employee, their own judgment, whether they should or should not open this thing. You hear about all the employees that failed, right? That they opened the thing, and their company got hacked, and they lost, you know, 10 million credit cards or whatever. You don't hear about all of the good calls that employees made, where they recognized correctly that this was a trick, and they didn't click on it. But I want to tell you, in my experience, I get to see all of those, too, and there's way more of those. So, don't lose hope. There's actually a lot of good that can come from employee education and people just being aware of this. Also, I just wanted to show you this one group, FIN7, how much effect they had in just a couple of years. This, all the states in red, were the ones that they actually stole credit cards from, a lot of locations, a lot of cards stolen. And then the really happy news is a press release from DOJ when the first three of these Combi Security employees, not only were arrested but brought back to U.S. custody and to face justice in U.S. court. So, they are going through the criminal justice system in Seattle, and you can follow some of that case in the news. Just earlier this year, there was another FIN

7 member who was also arrested and extradited from Thailand. So, coming from all over the place, from Germany, from Poland, from Thailand, all over the place. But this is the action takeaway. Oh, I realize this text is hard to read. Attackers want to use you or the employees at your company as a vulnerability, but by being vigilant, you actually can become, flip that on its head. You can become the best defense instead, by reporting these things to security so that the attackers don't have a chance to get in. So, I'm going to take these questions. So, good password manager to use if you have tons of passwords, LastPass is really good. There are a number of others. I basically just look for something that is mainstream and that has a lot to lose if their security is bad. And don't go... The other thing I do is always use multi-factor authentication everywhere that I can. I turn on multi-factor, and I use a multi-factor app, an authenticator app, like Microsoft Authenticator or Google Authenticator. Either one are really good. That way, even if somebody does steal my password, they can't get in. How much hacking these days is social engineering versus actually using system exploits or vulnerabilities? So, it's both. Almost all hacks use social engineering to get a foothold. That's how they get the initial, like, Visual Basic script or something. But then they do use exploiting system vulnerabilities once they're inside to escalate privileges and move laterally. So, what I found is that tons of companies feel like whatever computers are behind their firewall or behind their VPN nowadays with everybody remote, that they must be safe. And so, they just don't patch them. That's a terrible idea. As soon as one employee clicks on something, now the threat actor has access to run all of the exploits against all the unpatched vulnerabilities on the inside. And that's, that's sometimes quite devastating.

How much Bitcoin would cybercrime orgs pay a native English speaker to edit their copy? You want to take a job working for cybercrime orgs? That's funny. Actually, it's really low. It is. You would be surprised, like, how little money is exchanged in these operations that net the end threat actor like hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars. Like, people are paying each other, you know, 100 bucks here and there. A stolen full identity, like name, date of birth, social security number, driver's license, like all of that stuff, you can buy it for two bucks, which is crazy. And then you can do, you, threat actors, cybercriminals can do thousands and thousands of dollars worth of identity theft damage off of that two-dollar purchase. So, I think we're out of time. And I don't want to go over, but hopefully, that was useful. Thank you for the discussion. I'm going to have to go back and read all of the chat if it doesn't go away right away. But thank you for your time, and if you want to, you know, link up with me on LinkedIn, that's fine, or Twitter, whatever. You can find me pretty easily, rpardman, Randy Parkman. So, thank you for your time. Really appreciate getting the chance to talk to you. And Sean, did you want to take over and finish it up?

"Yeah, absolutely. Thank you so much, Randy. Do you mind if I share your LinkedIn across our Slack network?" "That's fine." "All right, awesome. I will. Thank you so much for your time. We would love to have you back sometime for even a Bitcoin talk. It was so interesting, so fascinating. Love to hear from you. For everyone out there, have fun in class and have a great weekend. Take care. Bye."