# Partner Power Hour 08: Launch a Career in Cybersecurity

Hey everybody, good to be back at the Code Fellows Power Hour. Hopefully, this presentation is useful to you even if you're just curious about the security profession and the pathways into it. So, let's take a look at some career pathway information at the junior level. I've got some useful slides here to go through things we'll talk about: the security job market, the skills that are used, and the part that everyone on LinkedIn seems to talk about, which is actually landing your first security job, which has its own challenges. We'll talk about training, which some of you, I'm guessing, are doing right now, IT certifications, experience required necessary to really get momentum in this field, and then I'll just leave some time open for Q&A and get your questions answered. Usually, the best way is just to drop them into the Q&A Zoom chat, as I've done in the past.

Just a little bit about me: I work for AWS on the security side of things. I have my CISSP, I have my master's, so I guess you could say I'm a bit intermediate into my career, but I wasn't always working in security, I wasn't always working in tech. So I wanted to share a little bit of my journey. My focus these days is primarily in the areas of security operations, particularly incident response. I do plenty of risk analysis, and it's all in the context of cloud security, which has been a very interesting and rewarding career with lots of unique challenges.

Some ideas, if you're on the developer track and you're just curious, there are some things to consider if you're wondering if this is a fit for your career trajectory. There are some upsides a lot of these have in common with other areas of tech. For example, salary: tech is known for good salaries. I would say jobs are in demand in the security space, and I think they will continue to be into the future. You get to be a tech professional, and the skills that you develop in security usually end up being valuable, transferable, sought after. So, some considerations to make if you're looking into this space.

Security is challenging in a number of ways. Really the biggest challenge that I've experienced, I would say, is the need to really have expertise in so many different disciplines. For example, you do need to be comfortable reading code, you do need to be comfortable in terminal applications, as well as just looking at technology in all aspects instead of just one. What makes the field challenging but also fun is that you do need to be a continuous learner. It takes a lot to keep your skills sharp and current, and that's a daily discipline that I've definitely worked on in my career. It's really competitive, this is the big point I wanted to address, this is the elephant in the room I would say in the modern discourse around entry-level security, is the question of is there an entry-level security with how competitive it is at the entry? So we'll look at that, we'll look at some information there, and I'll give you some ideas if you're in the security track and you're worried about that. I have some definite tips there for you.

Is the space of security genuinely interesting? And I think a lot of people start in other areas of security, sorry of tech really, and they eventually take an interest in it like maybe they work with people like me, maybe they end up studying it on their own. So it does need to be an area where if you're going to devote this much time you do want to make sure it's a genuine passion of yours before you pursue it in earnest. So there are ways to dabble in it, there are lots of home labs you can do, beginner workshops, guided learning options out there. Some things that come to mind are the usual like Try Hack Me or Hack the Box, or you know Udemy courses that give you a surface level introduction to a lot of security concepts. So a lot of that is low time commitment and is pretty accessible to the general public. So if you're curious about the space, I encourage you to try those things out and see if it's an interest of yours.

One of the big topics that everyone talks about is how much do I make in my first security job. So, I looked all over and I would say this data is consistent. It's a couple of years old, right, like it's 2018 data, so four years back, but still, this is consistent with my experience having gone through this industry, having switched jobs multiple times. I would say you're looking at $70k to $90k starting out if you have no tech experience in your background. That can vary tremendously. So this is the stereotypical front door of security operations which is cybersecurity analyst. So, analyst is a key word in this industry that signals that it's a junior position.

That's something to keep in mind is your salary grows very rapidly in tech, I would say. So you do start out in not horribly impressive figures in many cases, but really over time that climbs rapidly in my experience. Factors that affect your salary are how experienced you are in that space, your credentials, right, so in security we have this unhealthy obsession with industry certifications. So for this space, if you have more desirable certifications that can kind of sway what you gain access to in terms of jobs and their salaries, your network is a big deal, and as well as your negotiating skills. Like if you're a person that's afraid of negotiating when you receive a job offer, I think that could really hinder what kind of salary you end up with. Market timing, so there are ebbs and flows in the availability of these security jobs at the entry level, it goes up and down, right? So it kind of depends on when you are poking and prodding at the market itself for what options are open to you. Here are some resources that I always use: Glassdoor, Blind, very good resources for getting a sense of what do people make at the jobs that I'm targeting because that can really give you a sense of what you can expect to negotiate for if you have a comparable resume coming into it.

The security job market, there is steady growth honestly. It's projected to continue growing. I'm looking at this data from Grandview, there's a blend of professional services and managed services. So managed services are when a customer says, "Hey, I don't have the expertise, I need somebody else to really run my cloud or my IT infrastructure," and so customers may outsource their day-to-day to a tech professional. So we have a blend of professional and managed here and some factors in the job market are the emergence of remote-friendly jobs. So this is a big thing, and I think this is what really is working in your favor if you're shopping the job market in security in this year or the last couple of years compared to before is now you can work for somebody across the states if you're able to work their hours if a lot of other factors align. So that opens up a lot more options for you as a job seeker. Cloud adoption is a big, big factor why security jobs are here to stay. Honestly, like a big reason they're continuously growing. Demand varies at the different levels of seniority in security. So when you get out to the job market and if you're applying as a junior, you actually have quite a bit

 of competition. So be prepared for that. I would say the supply at the entry level is high. So the number of people that have the junior credentials and are doing the same thing you are, especially if you're going into job requisitions that have lots of attention in social media where lots of people are also going for the same job, that can create lots of fierce competition at the entry level. So at this level, it's a matter of creatively reducing your competition and so we'll talk about some strategies for that. I would say once you get into like intermediate and advanced, I would say my career is at least intermediate in terms of my seniority in the security space, and I would say there are not nearly enough of us to go around. So the supply tends to really drop off past the entry level and so at that point, you start receiving more job offers than you can manage once you get past that junior space. So that's kind of how things work is the supply of applicants that would be hireable is it just it starts out humongous and then it declines as the jobs require more and more expertise is what I've seen.

So everyone talks about the security workforce gap. So globally, as of the most recent ISC2 study, there's about 2.72 million unfilled security jobs around the planet. Asia Pacific is the highest region at 1.42 million unfilled jobs, and you can see in North America, there's about 402,000 unfilled security jobs. Now mind you, these are jobs at all seniority levels, some of these are higher, some of these are junior, right? So keep that in mind. And so security, you know, it does depend on where you are, right? And so we'll look at some geographic factors that create more job opportunities depending on where you want to work, right? So we'll take a look at that next but overall, the workforce gap for security professionals has been substantial in the past few years but I think it's stabilizing from the numbers I've looked at. I don't see this gap widening as the years go by. It seems to have stabilized, which means that supply has more aggressively started to meet the demand, but there is still a very high demand for these jobs.

So as promised, when you break it down in the U.S. by state and you actually just look at all security job openings, predictably larger metros, more people, more companies have the most jobs. But another thing is security jobs are more dense in areas with defense organizations. So areas with military presence, with federal agencies, defense sector jobs, those areas tend to have additional cybersecurity job openings. So if you're shopping markets and you're playing it by the numbers, that's something to keep in mind.

Factors that are driving security jobs, in general, are cloud adoption, which is something that seems to be here to stay and is just rapidly becoming a normal part of daily technical operations in every company. National defense, like we just talked about, there's a need for security professionals in the federal space for sure. Another thing that we've talked about in a previous presentation I gave at Power Hour here was the need for AppSec professionals. So people that can look at software, look at the code, and actually make improvements to the code. So that goes in the veins of secure software development and quite a few of the biggest vulnerabilities, biggest security issues that have emerged in the public eye in recent memory have to do with insecure code in widely distributed software packages. So that's a big driving force in this industry. Something I do a ton of is risk assessment and risk management. Ultimately, that's the modus operandi of any security professional in the space. And another driving force is compliance. So I've had a number of people with a little bit of tech background pivot closer to the security space by getting into an auditing style job where they're looking at NIST compliance or they're helping their client with something like SOC2 compliance. So compliance tends to be a very accessible route into the space. It's not something that I'm particularly, I don't have a ton of expertise in compliance beyond my certification studies and formal training. So it's not really my strength. But it's a big sector in this space. One of the best resources, if you're looking at this part of the tech industry, is something called CyberSeek.org. So if you pop on there, it's a web app that shows job titles and the pathways that they kind of flow into, generally speaking. So it's all very research-based and something I always call out are the key words to look for if you're a junior and you're shopping this market. So you're looking for words like analyst, support, the word junior itself is a big signal of accessibility, as well as tiers. My job has a number. A lot of jobs on this market have sequences like one, two, three to denote seniority and rank. So you're looking for the entry-level ranks if you're shopping this market. Some other things too if you look at the left, there are these roles that are adjacent to security where people are able to pivot more quickly into the security space if they start at an adjacent role. And one of the big callouts I think for Code Fellow students here is, for example, if you're in the Python track and you start a career developing Python automation or if you actually get into data science, which is the strength of Python in particular, that is a fantastic way to transition into security engineering ultimately where you get to build automation, use your data science and Python skills to really build meaningful tooling, meaningful systems in the security space. So a lot of people with developer backgrounds end up adding security to their repertoire so that they can start opening up opportunities in the security space and that's one of them. Like I mentioned earlier in the talk, security professionals do, there's some truth to being jack of all trades and that we do need to be comfortable with code and understand it and we need to be comfortable with CLI and as well as the IT side of networking, how DevOps workflows are executed. So if you have an adjacent skill, that can open up opportunities in the security space moving forward, which is not something that the popular narrative of SOC analyst necessarily calls out. So I like to make sure to call that out.

So some facts about this industry are less than 50 percent of security professionals actually started their careers in cybersecurity. So over half of people like me in the space started in some kind of adjacent field and then pivoted into security as a specialty later. The demand is high and it's a challenging space to work in honestly. There's lots of factors that make the job hunt difficult, but there's also a need to stay current and there's an intensity to this career that I think other tech careers have a different kind of intensity than security does. So it's kind of its own little career path with its own set of challenges, I would say. One of the upsides is you become an SME, an expert over your company's security posture and the security risks presented to it. And I think that's been the most fun part of my career is being able to work in cloud security on the forefront of tech and make meaningful impact on the defenses for a company. Within this career path, most people promote into positions of leadership, but there are also opportunities to promote into more senior engineer-type roles within the space of operations. When surveyed,

 most people who are in the security space wanted to stay in it. So I think the space is not for everybody but it tends to be a very rewarding career path in many ways if you especially care about being a very high-impact tech professional in your space.

Some career skills that don't get nearly enough press and seem to be overshadowed by this obsession with certifications in the industry are strong communication skills. So being able to convey risk to your stakeholders is basically the whole point of your job. So even if you have wonderful findings, if you're like the Kevin Mitnick of your space and you can hack into things, it doesn't really matter if you can't communicate it to your client who is compensating you to uncover those risks and mitigate them. So that's essential in the space, in the sense of technical communication as well as non-technical. On the non-technical side, you need the emotional intelligence to read a situation and develop that stakeholder investment where the people in your org buy into your initiatives. That's very important and it's easier said than done. Teamwork is huge. So security teams usually have their own niche, especially as you climb into these larger organizations, you might have threat hunters, incident response, we'll look at some examples of that, sharing expertise. You can't be a master at everything so you'll lean on others who have specialties in their niches to really provide the expertise that you're missing in the space. Writing skills, so this is something that if you're on the developer track, you might not think about as a vital skill in your career. You might think, well, I'm here to do tech things, I'm not necessarily here to write essays about things. But when you get into the security space in particular, writing is an absolute essential skill and it goes back to the idea of communicating risk to your stakeholders is the reason you're there. And so if you can write effectively and speak effectively, that means you can really excel in the security space where others may be constrained by their abilities to do so. Analysis, if you're a person that can take apart a situation, look at it from different angles, that's very helpful, and problem-solving, of course, I think that's probably true for all tech disciplines. It's the ability to critically think and work your way towards a solution. And continual learning, so you're never done regardless of what trajectory you're on with Code Fellows right now. That momentum of adding more skills to your repertoire is ongoing and it is something you need to keep momentum on yourself as you work through your career. But these are the things that I always want to highlight that will help sell you, especially if you're shopping the security job market.

Looking at some what skills, what niches you can get into, resources I like to call out are NICE Framework and CyberSeek.org. And some examples of security teams you might have an operations team, a network security team, maybe threat modeling, people that do that more proactive security. You might have an incident response team which is the type of work that I do on a daily basis. You might have a vulnerability management type of team, and you might have, of course, the theatrical things that everyone thinks of in security which is pen testing and offensive security teams as well. So there's lots of interesting little niches in the security space to get into that can be specialties as you build up your skill set in this side of the industry.

Challenges to this industry, it's really competitive especially at the entry level so it takes some creativity to stand out from your competition. It's highly dynamic, things change at the drop of a hat especially with the speed of information on platforms like Twitter and social media these days, information gets disseminated extremely quickly and that makes security professionals need to react that much more quickly. Security terminology, I mean the industry is a bit young but it's kind of hitting its stride in terms of making job listings fair but there's still some work to be done on that front. Certifications are all over the place and we'll talk about that next. I've got a whole diagram for that. How do you get into the space, get your credentials? So a lot of you right now are going through the Code Fellows program to get your tech careers started and launched off the ground. Keep your mind open to augment your resume with whatever you can so traditional degrees, certifications, all that stuff leads into you getting your foot in the door and getting that first job experience that goes on to your resume which proves that you're a tech person now, you're in the industry which can open up doors later. You can volunteer, attend workshops, get started in a related field, you can consult people that are already in the field. So if you have questions, for example, about security operations or what I do in incident response, just send me a shout on LinkedIn, be happy to answer any questions you might have. What I did early on when I got started in tech was actually seek out a professional career coach to look at my resume and revamp it to make it as competitive as possible in what I knew was a highly competitive job market going into it. Things you can do, get your LinkedIn going, get momentum there, contribute to it daily and strive to get more connections and attend as many networking events as you can. Security in particular has a lot of famous conferences like RSA, DefCon, things like that. So those are always fun to attend and those really have been eye-opening experiences for me even as a person who was a junior at the time.

Education, I mean that's a lot of what you're doing right now but there are traditional options. Major colleges now have bachelor's in security so lots of options there. Boot camps like the Code Fellows program here, those will get you going as well. Certifications are a huge, huge thing in security and it's really hard to compete if you don't have something that most applicants do, I would say. But the basics, one basic security certification is most famously Security+. Network+ is also very good just to get your fundamentals down. Things like cloud, things that have to do with networking are especially good and then once you get more advanced, the CISSP and the OSCP are more of the intermediate certifications for people who already have experience in the field. So just make sure you pick stuff that's in alignment with what your skill level is and experience with the space. CompTIA, really good fundamentals. So I know when I was designing the security program here at Code Fellows, I know a lot of what we included was inspired by what's on the Security+. So that's something to keep in mind is make sure you always get your basics down before you do the more theatrical things like practicing how to hack into a computer on Hack the Box. So make sure you get your tech basics down, I would say before you dive into things that seem more advanced. Here's a painful looking diagram of every security certification there is. I think this is a year or two old. There's an updated one on Reddit if you Google this, but there's a lot and certifications are a huge part of the industry like it or not in the security space. Some things to keep in mind with certifications, they're not the same as job experience. They're mostly there to signal some kind of baseline knowledge in a particular space so they should be used to help you market yourself more so than used as some kind of

 substitute for experience. But a lot of people are pursuing them in this space so I think we've covered a lot of this. I think the most important thing is they signal a passion and a commitment to the field and that can really help you sell yourself in an interview. How do I gain experience? Well, if you're in a position where you're new to the tech space, it actually may make sense to get your bearings and build your fundamentals. So a lot of the conventional wisdom that I see on LinkedIn is to start in a support role so support engineering, something like that to understand the technologies first and foremost and support them and then add a layer of complexity in the security side of things to what you've already practiced in order to really build your confidence there. So that's an option I would say and a very viable one if you're having trouble say breaking into the main stereotypical entry-level jobs of security such as SOC analyst. So keep that in mind, there's many roads you can take to pivot into this space.

So on that kind of line of thought, here is like a stereotypical way which is basically how I did it was I worked in IT, I got into networking, I did a bit of management, and then I ended up specialized in security full-time. But there's lots of different ways so if you have a particular background say if you come from sales or if you have a top secret security clearance, those things can be leveraged to open up opportunities in the security industry that really make you stand out from the competition. So the idea there is that your past experiences help you differentiate yourself from the competition. So if you have customer service, you can translate those skills into the next role that you apply for. In many of your cases, you'll have lots of coding experience and in that case, that will also open up opportunities later for security jobs that involve automation, the creation or maintenance of tooling, or just full out web application security. A lot of opportunities there for people with developer backgrounds. Management experience is always good, people with leadership qualities do very well in this space. Again, secret clearance always helps in this space with all the defense sector jobs available. Once you get into the phase of like hey I think this is something I want to pursue as my full-time role, there's a lot to it. What you want to do is take a look at somebody who's already there and start reverse engineering what that journey is going to look like. So a lot of people took a program like Code Fellows to get to where they are today and so that whole journey, it takes time, it takes patience, it takes dedication, but it can be done. This is something that I personally did was I said hey how do I be as competitive as the next person in the security space and I just looked at what people did and totally copied them essentially like shamelessly copied their credentials, I pursued the same certifications, I pursued the same training, I got my master's and just worked that into my strategy and it works. There's really no need to reinvent the wheel, I would say.

Career coaches are fantastic. You can find lots of them who have a niche in say tech for example that are very familiar with what works. And of course, networking, this is something I always bothered my students with that when I was teaching for Code Fellows is make sure you build your network every day, send out a reach out, make a connection request. You can also join security groups online, some of them are just affinity groups, some of them are just general security interest groups and those are great ways to meet people. The important thing with security is I get the sense on things like LinkedIn and Twitter that people are wanting to take like one certification and then just turn that into a job overnight and it's really not that simple like there's a lot of market forces that could make that process easier or difficult. A lot of things like your communication style, your quality of your resume, timing of the market that it's not as simple as I have this one credential and now it's going to be a very linear path to SOC analyst. There's a lot more to it so I think it's important to talk to somebody who's in the space and has gone through that journey to really get some ideas on how to really succeed, reduce the competition, and open up pathways. My personal strategy is to be open to alternative roles like support engineer is totally overlooked in my opinion right now and I think it's a wonderful way to build your credibility before you go hard specialized into security itself. So just keep an open mind. Your experiences are what differentiate you and you need to be able to prove the skills that you claim to have and the best way is to get that experience which is the ultimate goal here. Get the credentials, make sure you sell yourself on social media, in professional networking, and all of that is going to help open up opportunities to work not just in security honestly but in tech in general and that first hurdle is usually the hardest for most people. And once you cross that first threshold and you're in the tech space, your second job is much easier. So can you get a security job out the gate? Absolutely, with something like the program here, something like a security degree, there are lots of ways to do that. But you know if you feel like hey I need more bass, I need more fundamentals, keep an open mind to take things like support engineer, DevOps, or even go the developer route and do some coding for a few years to build up your base and then take what you learned there and say hey what if I want to protect my assets using these skills, what do I need to learn next to become somebody who can protect this thing for a company and that's and that tends to be a viable option as well. And so I've seen this play out in people I've mentored and it's definitely something to keep an open mind about versus this need to just go straight through the front door, SOC analyst. There are just challenges with whatever strategy you pursue so keep an open mind with that. Anyways, that's all I've got for my deck here. Just curious if you have any questions, pop them in, be happy to answer them. But yeah, great to see you all for this Power Hour. I hope that was helpful.

Got a question from Adris, sorry if I'm butchering that, is it easier to get into entry-level cybersecurity or software development? Entry-level tech, in general, is not easy, especially if you don't have a tech job prior to applying. I don't know, my first job was a business analyst and that was mostly, it was like a two-thirds developer, one-third IT support type of job, and even getting my foot in store into that took quite a bit of career coaching. So I don't want to underestimate the developer side of things and I think the answer to that question honestly is lots of jobs are not strictly one thing. They might be a hodgepodge of different roles, different hats that you wear, and in particular, smaller companies will often have jobs that let you wear multiple hats and really build up different aspects of your experience at a time. So I know the bigger companies are quite popular these days but keep an open mind for opportunities for startups and mid-sizes for places that you can build a wide range of skills that you eventually can leverage later and say hey on my on this date and time

 I worked this project and then that is what you can leverage later to say yeah I'm a proven tech professional. So I don't know what's harder in terms of getting started. I just know that security has an allure right now, a certain level of popularity at the entry level so that's just something that you have to, it's like a problem you have to work around as you market yourself for the first time. In terms of what both disciplines can do, I think both sides should have GitHub, both sides should understand developer workflows, you know command line interfaces, basic computing. I think everybody in tech needs that and should be doing that stuff to really help sell that hey I understand these things, I understand the basics, and I'm ready to roll in a full-time position.

Yeah, I agree with Roger on the whole certification thing like that is an obsession I would say that's unique to security. I don't see that as being nearly as present for a developer who can simply point to a project and say hey I used all these skills on this project, have a look at my code, or have a look in my demonstration. It's just a different, there's a lot of differences there I would say in terms of there's no like CompTIA coder plus right that you take and it's just like this auto signal. So to keep that in mind, right like it depends on your destination very much so.

Okay, if you have any other questions pop them in but otherwise happy to wrap things up if we need you to know. One of the things you kept mentioning, David, as we were talking was risk management and risk analysis for those of us who aren't familiar with those terms and have not been in the cybersecurity field like many of the developers are. Can you talk to us about which things you actually look at to determine the risk?

So that's one of the things I've been working on the most in my current professional work is being able to look at a bunch of technical jargon and then apply it to the situation that I'm currently in with the client that I'm protecting. So in terms of risk management, an understanding of the risk assessment process is and how to apply it is something that I think is a bigger part in security compared to other career pathways. And so what happens in that process is say like a major thing emerges so say an issue occurs, an incident happens, the first thing you do is you look at the facts, you take a look at the situation, you talk to the people that you need to say hey how bad is this like how aggressively should the client I'm supporting engage with that issue compared to the myriad of other issues they may be facing, right? So any technology-using company will have all number of web services they're supporting, web applications, every business will have like a point of sale system of some kind, all these other things like databases that are hard enough to maintain uptime but then you add this, you know then you added the grenade that is like an active intruder, right? How do you divert your resources as a company to prioritize the biggest problems first and the littlest problems last and that's actually a really fun process where in many cases an issue or a situation can be so technical that it requires a lot of people to put their heads together and come up with a realistic take on the situation in order to judge what to do next. And for me, that's been a big thing that I've really enjoyed in incident response in particular that I think is I think is a more prominent part of a security career pathway than say for example software development. I think the closest analogy would be like as you develop a web application what are the biggest must-haves and the biggest bugs that you're triaging first and you of course you have a prioritization there and if you take that you translate that into a say an active security incident and you start prioritizing well what do we need to address first, what's the most urgent thing to do here, and where do our risks exist in terms of how do we get the outcome to back to where we get to a stable position. It's kind of like that, right? It's prioritizing what needs to be done first and it's identifying how bad is this really in the context of my client that I'm protecting. So that would be my take on that, Sean.

Well, thank you so much for your time, David. We really appreciate it. It's one o'clock so I'll let all of you go back to labs, go back to your homework, go back to your final exams for some of you. Hopefully, you guys have gained a good understanding of what cybersecurity and what a career looks like and hopefully, you'll connect with David on LinkedIn because he is a wonderful resource to have, especially if you're looking at cybersecurity. Everyone, have a great weekend and we'll see you all later. Bye. Thanks, everyone.